Now, let's look at our local installation of Splunk.
As we had seen earlier that is available to us at local-host 8,000 port,
and on the left-hand side you have search and reporting options.
The moment you click that it offers you a tour.
You can choose take it or skip it,
and then you will come across this,
this screen which is a search screen.
I do not have any datasets added yet,
but I'm going to teach you how you can add data to your Splunk index.
So if you are interested you can go
over certain tutorials that are available to you on Splunk,
and here I am going to talk to you about how you can add data to Splunk.
So let's get into that.
So now let's look at the local Splunk instance that you have
running which is available at local host 8,000,
and let's try to add some data.
So the option to add data is available under settings.
All you have to do is click on Add Data,
and that provides you the option of adding data.
There was also the prompt that asks me if I wanted to go through the tutorial,
feel free to take as many tutorials as you want from here as well.
But here are the three options or the three ways you can get data into Splunk.
We will start with upload.
What upload basically does is that here you can have
your local log files or any structure files like
CSV and you can upload that by clicking on Upload here and just selecting the file,
and from local you can upload that.
The second option that you can have is monitor.
What monitor does is that it allows you to configure the system
or Splunk to get data from one of the files from your local system.
So let's say that I have TCP/UDP,
and I can put the port number
here from where I would be listening and any overrides that I wanted to do,
and I'll be able to click on Next and review the Input Settings,
and then perform that as well.
You can do the same for HTTP collector and other files and directories as well,
and so can you from scripts.
The last option would be using a forwarder.
That is something that we will cover as well.
So I'm going to start with uploading data.
Now, for performing this what I need to do is I need to have a dataset.
For the dataset what I'm going to do is I'm going to refer to these two open datasets,
and this is something that I'm going to use for this.
It's the transstats.bts.gov data,
so I have that open here already.
So here I have some statistical product.
I have some database directory, aviation.
So I'm taking American travel survey,
you can choose to download from anywhere.
For ease I'm just taking household characteristics.
This is all open datasets,
and I'm going to add a series of data that I want,
a series of fields from this particular table.
Let me just add all of them or as many as I can add right now,
and I am going to download this.
Once this data is downloaded,
the ZIP convert into a CSV which is what
I'm going to use in order to upload in the upload section.